Datadeveloper
| COMMENTS | STATISTICS | RECORDS |
|
Title of test:
Datadeveloper Description: i am seure to this test |
| New Comment |
|---|
NO RECORDS |
|
1.. For this question, refer to the TerramEarth case study. A new architecture that writes all incoming data to BigQuery has been introduced. You notice that the data is dirty, and want to ensure data quality on an automated daily basis while managing cost. What should you do?. Set up a streaming Cloud Dataflow job, receiving data by the ingestion process. Clean the data in a Cloud Dataflow pipeline. Create a Cloud Function that reads data from BigQuery and cleans it. Trigger the Cloud Function from a Compute Engine instance. Create a SQL statement on the data in BigQuery, and save it as a view. Run the view daily, and save the result to a new table. Use Cloud Dataprep and configure the BigQuery tables as the source. Schedule a daily job to clean the data. 2...For this question, refer to the TerramEarth case study. Considering the technical requirements, how should you reduce the unplanned vehicle downtime in GCP?. Use BigQuery as the data warehouse. Connect all vehicles to the network and stream data into BigQuery using Cloud Pub/Sub and Cloud Dataflow. Use Google Data Studio for analysis and reporting. Use BigQuery as the data warehouse. Connect all vehicles to the network and upload gzip files to a MultiRegional Cloud Storage bucket using gcloud. Use Google Data Studio for analysis and reporting. Use Cloud Dataproc Hive as the data warehouse. Upload gzip files to a Multi-Regional Cloud Storage bucket. Upload this data into BigQuery using gcloud. Use Google Data Studio for analysis and reporting. Use Cloud Dataproc Hive as the data warehouse. Directly stream data into partitioned Hive tables. Use Pig scripts to analyze data. 3...For this question, refer to the TerramEarth case study. You are asked to design a new architecture for the ingestion of the data of the 200,000 vehicles that are connected to a cellular network. You want to follow Googlerecommended practices. Considering the technical requirements, which components should you use for the ingestion of the data?. Google Kubernetes Engine with an SSL Ingress. Cloud IoT Core with public/private key pairs. Compute Engine with project-wide SSH keys. Compute Engine with specific SSH keys. 4...Regarding Cloud Storage, which option allows any user to access to a Cloud Storage resource for a limited time, using a specific URL?. Open Buckets. Temporary Resources. Signed URLs. Temporary URLs. Of the options given, which is a NoSQL database?. Cloud Datastore. Cloud SQL. All of the given options. Cloud Storage. 6...Container Engine allows orchastration of what type of containers?. Blue Whale. LXC. BSD Jails. Docker. 7..Regarding Cloud IAM, what type of role(s) are available?. Basic roles and Compiled roles. Primitive roles and Predefined roles. Simple roles. Basic roles and Curated roles. 8...Which of the follow products will allow you to host a static website?. Cloud SDK. Cloud Endpoints. Cloud Storage. Cloud Datastore. Container Engine is built on which open source system?. Swarm. Kubernetes. Docker Orchastrate. Mesos. Cloud Source Repositories provide a hosted version of which version control system?. Git. RCS. SVN. Mercurial. 11...Which of the following is an analytics data warehouse?. Cloud SQL. Big Query. Datastore. Cloud Storage. 12 ..Which service offers the ability to create and run virtual machines?. Google Virtualization Engine. Compute Containers. VM Engine. Compute Engine. 13 ...Which of the following is not helpful for mitigating the impact of an unexpected failure or reboot?. Use persistent disks. Configure tags and labels. Use startup scripts to re-configure the system as needed. Back up your data. Single sign-on (SSO) with G Suite is based on _____?. SAML2. JWT. Service accounts. JSON. Which tool allows you to sync data in your Google domain with Active Directory?. Google Cloud Directory Sync (GCDS). Google Active Directory (GAD). Google Domain Sync Service. Google LDAP Sync. 16 ...Regarding Cloud Storage: which of the following allows for time-limited access to buckets and objects without a Google account?. Signed URLs. gsutil. Single sign-on. Temporary Storage Accounts. 17...Which of the following is a virtual machine instance that can be terminated by Compute Engine without warning?. A preemptible VM. A shared-core VM. A high-cpu VM. A standard VM. 18 ..Regarding Compute Engine: What is a managed instance group?. A managed instance group combines existing instances of different configurations into one manageable group. A managed instance group uses an instance template to create identical instances. A managed instance group creates a firewall around instances. A managed instance group is a set of servers used exclusively for batch processing. 19..What type of firewall rule(s) does Google Cloud's networking support?. deny. allow, deny & filtered. allow. allow & deny. 20... How are subnetworks different than the legacy networks?. They're the same, only the branding is different. Each subnetwork controls the IP address range used for instances that are allocated to that subnetwork. With subnetworks IP address allocation occurs at the global network level. Legacy networks are the preferred way to create networks. 21 ..Which of the following is not a valid metric for triggering autoscaling?. Google Cloud Pub/Sub queuing. Average CPU utilization. Stackdriver Monitoring metrics. App Engine Task Queues. 22...Which of the following features makes applying firewall settings easier?. Service accounts. Tags. Metadata. Labels. 23 ..What option does Cloud SQL offer to help with high availability?. Point-in-time recovery. The AlwaysOn setting. Snapshots. Failover replicas. 24 ..Regarding Compute Engine: when executing a startup script on a Linux server which user does the instance execute the script as?. ubuntu. The Google provided "gceinstance" user. Whatever user you specify in the console. root. 25 ... Which of the follow methods will not cause a shutdown script to be executed?. When an instance shuts down through a request to the guest operating system. A preemptible instance being terminated. An instances.reset API call. Shutting down via the cloud console. 26 ..Which type of account would you use in code when you want to interact with Google Cloud services?. Google group. Service account. Code account. Google account. 27..Which of the following is not an IAM best practice?. Use primitive roles by default. Treat each component of your application as a separate trust boundary. Grant roles at the smallest scope needed. Restrict who has access to create and manage service accounts in your project. 28..Which of the following would not reduce your recovery time in the event of a disaster?. Make it as easy as possible to adjust the DNS record to cut over to your warm standby server. Replace your warm standby server with a hot standby server. Use a highly preconfigured machine image for deploying new instances. Replace your active/active hybrid production environment (on-premises and GCP) with a warm standby server. 29 .... Which of the following is not a best practice for mitigating Denial of Service attacks on your Google Cloud infrastructure?. Block SYN floods using Cloud Router. Isolate your internal traffic from the external world. Scale to absorb the attack. Reduce the attack surface for your GCE deployment. 30...Which is the fastest instance storage option that will still be available when an instance is stopped?. Local SSD. Standard Persistent Disk. SSD Persistent Disk. RAM disk. 31..Which of these statements about Microsoft licenses is true?. You can migrate your existing Microsoft application licenses to Compute Engine instances, but not your Microsoft Windows licenses. You can migrate your existing Microsoft Windows and Microsoft application licenses to Compute Engine instances. You cannot migrate your existing Microsoft Windows or Microsoft application licenses to Compute Engine instances. You can migrate your existing Microsoft Windows licenses to Compute Engine instances, but not your Microsoft application licenses. 32..Which database services support standard SQL queries?. Cloud Bigtable and Cloud SQL. Cloud Spanner and Cloud SQL. Cloud SQL and Cloud Datastore. Cloud SQL. 33...Which statement about IP addresses is false?. You are charged for a static external IP address for every hour it is in use. You are not charged for ephemeral IP addresses. Google Cloud Engine supports only IPv4 addresses, not IPv6. You are charged for a static external IP address when it is assigned but unused. 34..Which Google Cloud Platform service requires the least management because it takes care of the underlying infrastructure for you?. Container Engine. Cloud Engine. App Engine. Docker containers running on Cloud Engine. 35..To ensure that your application will handle the load even if an entire zone fails, what should you do?. Don't select the "Multizone" option when creating your managed instance group. Spread your managed instance group over two zones and overprovision by 100%. Create a regional unmanaged instance group and spread your instances across multiple zones. Overprovision your regional managed instance group by at least 50%. 36 ..If you do not grant a user named Bob permission to access a Cloud Storage bucket, but then use an ACL to grant access to an object inside that bucket to Bob, what will happen?. Bob will be able to access all of the objects inside the bucket because he was granted access to at least one object in the bucket. Bob will be able to access the object because bucket and object ACLs are independent of each other. Bob will not be able to access the object because he does not have access to the bucket. It is not possible to grant access to an object when it is inside a bucket for which a user does not have access. 37...To set up a virtual private network between your office network and Google Cloud Platform and have the routes automatically updated when the network topology changes, what is the minimal number of each type of component you need to implement?. 2 Cloud VPN Gateways and 1 Peer Gateway. 1 Cloud VPN Gateway, 1 Peer Gateway, and 1 Cloud Router. 2 Peer Gateways and 1 Cloud Router. 2 Cloud VPN Gateways and 1 Cloud Route. 38..Which of the following statements about encryption on GCP is not true?. Google Cloud Platform encrypts customer data stored at rest by default. Each encryption key is itself encrypted with a set of master keys. If you want to manage your own encryption keys for data on Google Cloud Storage, the only option is Customer-Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK) using Cloud KMS. Data in Google Cloud Platform is broken into subfile chunks for storage, and each chunk is encrypted at the storage level with an individual encryption key. 39..Which database service requires that you configure a failover replica to make it highly available?. Cloud Spanner. Cloud SQL. BigQuery. Cloud Datastore. 40...Which of these is not a principle you should apply when setting roles and permissions?. Whenever possible, assign roles to groups instead of to individuals. Grant users the appropriate permissions to facilitate least privilege. Whenever possible, assign primitive roles rather than predefined roles. Audit all policy changes by checking the Cloud Audit Logs. 41..Which of these is not a recommended method of authenticating an application with a Google Cloud service?. Use the gcloud and/or gsutil commands. Request an OAuth2 access token and use it directly. Embed the service account's credentials in the application's source code. Use one of the Google Cloud Client Libraries. 42...What are two different features that fully isolate groups of VM instances?. Firewall rules and subnetworks. Networks and subnetworks. Subnetworks and projects. Projects and networks. 43....Suppose you have a web server that is working properly, but you can't connect to its instance VM over SSH. Which of these troubleshooting methods can you use without disrupting production traffic? (Select 3 answers.). Create a snapshot of the disk and use it to create a new disk; then attach the new disk to a new instance. Use netcat to try to connect to port 22. Access the serial console output. Create a startup script to collect information. 44..To configure Stackdriver to monitor a web server and let you know if it goes down, what steps do you need to take? (Select 2 answers.). Install the Stackdriver Logging Agent on the web server. Create an alerting policy. Install the Stackdriver Monitoring Agent on the web server. Create an uptime check. 45...Which of these tools can you use to copy data from AWS S3 to Cloud Storage? (Select 2 answers.). Cloud Storage Transfer Service. S3 Storage Transfer Service. Cloud Storage Console. gsutil. 46 ...What are two of the actions you can take to troubleshoot a virtual machine instance that won't start up at all? (Select 2 answers.). Increase the CPU and memory on the instance by changing the machine type. Validate that your disk has a valid file system. Examine your virtual machine instance's serial port output. Connect to your virtual machine instance using SSH. 47 ..Which statements about application load testing are true? (Select 2 answers.). You should test at the maximum load that you expect to encounter. You should test at 50% more than the maximum load that you expect to encounter. It is not necessary to test sudden increases in traffic since GCP scales seamlessly. Your load tests should include testing sudden increases in traffic. 49...Which of these statements about resilience testing are true? (Select 2 answers.). In a resilience test, your application should keep running with little or no downtime. To test the resilience of an autoscaling instance group, you can terminate a random instance within that group. In order for an application to survive instance failures, it should not be stateless. Resilience testing is the same as disaster recovery testing. 50...Which combination of Stackdriver services will alert you about errors generated by your applications and help you locate the root cause in the code?. Monitoring, Trace, and Debugger. Monitoring and Error Reporting. Debugger and Error Reporting. Alerts and Debugger. 51 ...If you have configured Stackdriver Logging to export logs to BigQuery, but logs entries are not getting exported to BigQuery, what is the most likely cause?. The Cloud Data Transfer Service has not been enabled. There isn't a firewall rule allowing traffic between Stackdriver and BigQuery. Stackdriver Logging does not have permission to write to the BigQuery dataset. The size of the Stackdriver log entries being exported exceeds the maximum capacity of the BigQuery dataset. 52..You can use Stackdriver to monitor virtual machines on which cloud platforms?. Google Cloud Platform, Microsoft Azure. Google Cloud Platform. Google Cloud Platform, Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services. Google Cloud Platform, Amazon Web Services. 53...To minimize the risk of someone changing your log files to hide their activities, which of the following principles would help? (Select 3 answers.). Restrict usage of the owner role for projects and log buckets. Require two people to inspect the logs. Implement object versioning on the log-buckets. Encrypt the logs using Cloud KMS. 54..If network traffic between one Google Compute Engine instance and another instance is being dropped, what is the most likely cause?. The instances are on a network with low bandwidth. The TCP keep-alive setting is too short. The instances are on a default network with no additional firewall rules. A firewall rule was deleted. 55..Which of the following practices can help you develop more secure software? (Select 3 answers.). Penetration tests. Integrating static code analysis tools into your CI/CD pipeline. Encrypting your source code. Peer review of code. 56...Which two places hold information you can use to monitor the effects of a Cloud Storage lifecycle policy on specific objects? (Select 2 answers.). Cloud Storage Lifecycle Monitoring. Expiration time metadata. Access logs. Lifecycle config file. 57...If you have object versioning enabled on a multi-regional bucket, what will the following lifecycle config file do? "lifecycle": "rule": [ "action": "type": "Delete" , "condition": "age": 30, "isLive": true , "action": "type": "SetStorageClass", "storageClass": "COLDLINE" , "condition": "age": 365, "matchesStorageClass": ["MULTI_REGIONAL"] ]. Archive objects older than 30 days (the second rule doesn't do anything). Delete objects older than 30 days (the second rule doesn't do anything). Archive objects older than 30 days and move objects to Coldline Storage after 365 days. Delete objects older than 30 days and move objects to Coldline Storage after 365 days. 58..Which of the following statements about Stackdriver Trace are true? (Select 2 answers.). Stackdriver Trace tracks the performance of the virtual machines running the application. Stackdriver Trace tracks the latency of incoming requests. Applications in App Engine automatically submit traces to Stackdriver Trace. Applications outside of App Engine need to use the Trace SDK or Trace API. To make an application work with Stackdriver Trace, you need to add instrumentation code using the Trace SDK or Trace API, even if the application is in App. 59...For this question, refer to the TerramEarth case study. You start to build a new application that uses a few Cloud Functions for the backend. One use case requires a Cloud Function func_display to invoke another Cloud Function func_query. You want func_query only to accept invocations from func_display. You also want to follow Google's recommended best practices. What should you do?. Create a token and pass it in as an environment variable to func_display. When invoking func_query, include the token in the request. Pass the same token to func_query and reject the invocation if the tokens are different. Make func_query 'Require authentication.' Create a unique service account and associate it to func_display. Grant the service account invoker role for func_query. Create an id token in func_display and include the token to the request when invoking func_query. Make func_query 'Require authentication' and only accept internal traffic. Create those two functions in the same VPC. Create an ingress firewall rule for func_query to only allow traffic from func_display. Create those two functions in the same project and VPC. Make func_query only accept internal traffic. Create an ingress firewall for func_query to only allow traffic from func_display. Also, make sure both functions use the same service account. 60..For this question, refer to the TerramEarth case study. You have broken down a legacy monolithic application into a few containerized RESTful microservices. You want to run those microservices on Cloud Run. You also want to make sure the services are highly available with low latency to your customers. What should you do?. Deploy Cloud Run services to multiple availability zones. Create Cloud Endpoints that point to the services. Create a global HTTP(S) Load Balancing instance and attach the Cloud Endpoints to its backend. Deploy Cloud Run services to multiple regions. Create serverless network endpoint groups pointing to the services. Add the serverless NEGs to a backend service that is used by a global HTTP(S) Load Balancing instance. Deploy Cloud Run services to multiple regions. In Cloud DNS, create a latency-based DNS name that points to the services. Deploy Cloud Run services to multiple availability zones. Create a TCP/IP global load balancer. Add the Cloud Run Endpoints to its backend service. 61..For this question, refer to the TerramEarth case study. You are migrating a Linux-based application from your private data center to Google Cloud. The TerramEarth security team sent you several recent Linux vulnerabilities published by Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE). You need assistance in understanding how these vulnerabilities could impact your migration. What should you do? (Choose two.). Open a support case regarding the CVE and chat with the support engineer. Read the CVEs from the Google Cloud Status Dashboard to understand the impact. Read the CVEs from the Google Cloud Platform Security Bulletins to understand the impact. Post a question regarding the CVE in Stack Overflow to get an explanation. Post a question regarding the CVE in a Google Cloud discussion group to get an explanation. 62....For this question, refer to the TerramEarth case study. TerramEarth has a legacy web application that you cannot migrate to cloud. However, you still want to build a cloud-native way to monitor the application. If the application goes down, you want the URL to point to a "Site is unavailable" page as soon as possible. You also want your Ops team to receive a notification for the issue. You need to build a reliable solution for minimum cost. What should you do?. Create a scheduled job in Cloud Run to invoke a container every minute. The container will check the application URL. If the application is down, switch the URL to the "Site is unavailable" page, and notify the Ops team. Create a cron job on a Compute Engine VM that runs every minute. The cron job invokes a Python program to check the application URL. If the application is down, switch the URL to the "Site is unavailable" page, and notify the Ops team. Create a Cloud Monitoring uptime check to validate the application URL. If it fails, put a message in a Pub/Sub queue that triggers a Cloud Function to switch the URL to the "Site is unavailable" page, and notify the Ops team. Use Cloud Error Reporting to check the application URL. If the application is down, switch the URL to the "Site is unavailable" page, and notify the Ops team. 63...For this question, refer to the TerramEarth case study. You are building a microservice-based application for TerramEarth. The application is based on Docker containers. You want to follow Google-recommended practices to build the application continuously and store the build artifacts. What should you do?. Configure a trigger in Cloud Build for new source changes. Invoke Cloud Build to build container images for each microservice, and tag them using the code commit hash. Push the images to the Container Registry. Configure a trigger in Cloud Build for new source changes. The trigger invokes build jobs and build container images for the microservices. Tag the images with a version number, and push them to Cloud Storage. Create a Scheduler job to check the repo every minute. For any new change, invoke Cloud Build to build container images for the microservices. Tag the images using the current timestamp, and push them to the Container Registry. Configure a trigger in Cloud Build for new source changes. Invoke Cloud Build to build one container image, and tag the image with the label 'latest.' Push the image to the Container Registry. 64...For this question, refer to the TerramEarth case study. TerramEarth has about 1 petabyte (PB) of vehicle testing data in a private data center. You want to move the data to Cloud Storage for your machine learning team. Currently, a 1-Gbps interconnect link is available for you. The machine learning team wants to start using the data in a month. What should you do?. Request Transfer Appliances from Google Cloud, export the data to appliances, and return the appliances to Google Cloud. Configure the Storage Transfer service from Google Cloud to send the data from your data center to Cloud Storage. Make sure there are no other users consuming the 1Gbps link, and use multi-thread transfer to upload the data to Cloud Storage. Export files to an encrypted USB device, send the device to Google Cloud, and request an import of the data to Cloud Storage. 65 ....The Dress4Win security team has disabled external SSH access into production virtual machines (VMs) on Google Cloud Platform (GCP).The operations team needs to remotely manage the VMs, build and push Docker containers, and manage Google Cloud Storage objects. What can they do?. Grant the operations engineer access to use Google Cloud Shell. Configure a VPN connection to GCP to allow SSH access to the cloud VMs. Develop a new access request process that grants temporary SSH access to cloud VMs when an operations engineer needs to perform a task. Have the development team build an API service that allows the operations team to execute specific remote procedure calls to accomplish their tasks. 66...At Dress4Win, an operations engineer wants to create a tow-cost solution to remotely archive copies of database backup files. The database files are compressed tar files stored in their current data center. How should he proceed?. Create a cron script using gsutil to copy the files to a Coldline Storage bucket. Create a cron script using gsutil to copy the files to a Regional Storage bucket. Create a Cloud Storage Transfer Service Job to copy the files to a Coldline Storage bucket. Create a Cloud Storage Transfer Service job to copy the files to a Regional Storage bucket. 67..Dress4Win has asked you to recommend machine types they should deploy their application servers to. How should you proceed?. Perform a mapping of the on-premises physical hardware cores and RAM to the nearest machine types in the cloud. Recommend that Dress4Win deploy application servers to machine types that offer the highest RAM to CPU ratio available. Recommend that Dress4Win deploy into production with the smallest instances available, monitor them over time, and scale the machine type up until the desired performance is reached. Identify the number of virtual cores and RAM associated with the application server virtual machines align them to a custom machine type in the cloud, monitor performance, and scale the machine types up until the desired performance is reached. 68...As part of Dress4Win's plans to migrate to the cloud, they want to be able to set up a managed logging and monitoring system so they can handle spikes in their traffic load. They want to ensure that: * The infrastructure can be notified when it needs to scale up and down to handle the ebb and flow of usage throughout the day * Their administrators are notified automatically when their application reports errors. * They can filter their aggregated logs down in order to debug one piece of the application across many hosts Which Google StackDriver features should they use?. Logging, Alerts, Insights, Debug. Monitoring, Trace, Debug, Logging. Monitoring, Logging, Alerts, Error Reporting. Monitoring, Logging, Debug, Error Report. 69...Dress4Win would like to become familiar with deploying applications to the cloud by successfully deploying some applications quickly, as is. They have asked for your recommendation. What should you advise?. Identify self-contained applications with external dependencies as a first move to the cloud. Identify enterprise applications with internal dependencies and recommend these as a first move to the cloud. Suggest moving their in-house databases to the cloud and continue serving requests to on-premise applications. Recommend moving their message queuing servers to the cloud and continue handling requests to onpremise applications. 70..Dress4Win has asked you for advice on how to migrate their on-premises MySQL deployment to the cloud. They want to minimize downtime and performance impact to their on-premises solution during the migration. Which approach should you recommend?. Create a dump of the on-premises MySQL master server, and then shut it down, upload it to the cloud environment, and load into a new MySQL cluster. Setup a MySQL replica server/slave in the cloud environment, and configure it for asynchronous replication from the MySQL master server on-premises until cutover. Create a new MySQL cluster in the cloud, configure applications to begin writing to both on premises and cloud MySQL masters, and destroy the original cluster at cutover. Create a dump of the MySQL replica server into the cloud environment, load it into: Google Cloud Datastore, and configure applications to read/write to Cloud Datastore at cutover. 71...Dress4Win has configured a new uptime check with Google Stackdriver for several of their legacy services. The Stackdriver dashboard is not reporting the services as healthy. What should they do?. Install the Stackdriver agent on all of the legacy web servers. In the Cloud Platform Console download the list of the uptime servers' IP addresses and create an inbound firewall rule. Configure their load balancer to pass through the User-Agent HTTP header when the value matches GoogleStackdriverMonitoring-UptimeChecks (https:// cloud.google.com/monitoring). Configure their legacy web servers to allow requests that contain user-Agent HTTP header when the value matches GoogleStackdriverMonitoring- UptimeChecks (https://cloud.google.com/monitoring). 72..As part of their new application experience, Dress4Wm allows customers to upload images of themselves. The customer has exclusive control over who may view these images. Customers should be able to upload images with minimal latency and also be shown their images quickly on the main application page when they log in. Which configuration should Dress4Win use?. Store image files in a Google Cloud Storage bucket. Use Google Cloud Datastore to maintain metadata that maps each customer's ID and their image files. Store image files in a Google Cloud Storage bucket. Add custom metadata to the uploaded images in Cloud Storage that contains the customer's unique ID. Use a distributed file system to store customers' images. As storage needs increase, add more persistent disks and/or nodes. Assign each customer a unique ID, which sets each file's owner attribute, ensuring privacy of images. Use a distributed file system to store customers' images. As storage needs increase, add more persistent disks and/or nodes. Use a Google Cloud SQL database to maintain metadata that maps each customer's ID to their image files. 73...Dress4Win has end-to-end tests covering 100% of their endpoints. They want to ensure that the move to the cloud does not introduce any new bugs. Which additional testing methods should the developers employ to prevent an outage?. They should enable Google Stackdriver Debugger on the application code to show errors in the code. They should add additional unit tests and production scale load tests on their cloud staging environment. They should run the end-to-end tests in the cloud staging environment to determine if the code is working as intended. They should add canary tests so developers can measure how much of an impact the new release causes to latency. 74...You want to ensure Dress4Win's sales and tax records remain available for infrequent viewing by auditors for at least 10 years. Cost optimization is your top priority. Which cloud services should you choose?. Google Cloud Storage Coldline to store the data, and gsutil to access the data. Google Cloud Storage Nearline to store the data, and gsutil to access the data. Google Bigtabte with US or EU as location to store the data, and gcloud to access the data. BigQuery to store the data, and a web server cluster in a managed instance group to access the data. Google Cloud SQL mirrored across two distinct regions to store the data, and a Redis cluster in a managed instance group to access the data. 75..The current Dress4Win system architecture has high latency to some customers because it is located in one data center. As of a future evaluation and optimizing for performance in the cloud, Dresss4Win wants to distribute its system architecture to multiple locations when Google cloud platform. Which approach should they use? A.B.C.D. Use regional managed instance groups and a global load balancer to increase performance because the regional managed instance group can grow instances in each region separately based on traffic. Use a global load balancer with a set of virtual machines that forward the requests to a closer group of virtual machines managed by your operations team. Use regional managed instance groups and a global load balancer to increase reliability by providing automatic failover between zones in different regions. Use a global load balancer with a set of virtual machines that forward the requests to a closer group of virtual machines as part of a separate managed instance groups. 76...For this question, refer to the Dress4Win case study. Dress4Win is expected to grow to 10 times its size in 1 year with a corresponding growth in data and traffic that mirrors the existing patterns of usage. The CIO has set the target of migrating production infrastructure to the cloud within the next 6 months. How will you configure the solution to scale for this growth without making major application changes and still maximize the ROI?. Migrate the web application layer to App Engine, and MySQL to Cloud Datastore, and NAS to Cloud Storage. Deploy RabbitMQ, and deploy Hadoop servers using Deployment Manager. Migrate RabbitMQ to Cloud Pub/Sub, Hadoop to BigQuery, and NAS to Compute Engine with Persistent Disk storage. Deploy Tomcat, and deploy Nginx using Deployment Manager. Implement managed instance groups for Tomcat and Nginx. Migrate MySQL to Cloud SQL, RabbitMQ to Cloud Pub/Sub, Hadoop to Cloud Dataproc, and NAS to Compute Engine with Persistent Disk storage. Implement managed instance groups for the Tomcat and Nginx. Migrate MySQL to Cloud SQL, RabbitMQ to Cloud Pub/Sub, Hadoop to Cloud Dataproc, and NAS to Cloud Storage. 77..For this question, refer to the Dress4Win case study. Considering the given business requirements, how would you automate the deployment of web and transactional data layers?. Deploy Nginx and Tomcat using Cloud Deployment Manager to Compute Engine. Deploy a Cloud SQL server to replace MySQL. Deploy Jenkins using Cloud Deployment Manager. Deploy Nginx and Tomcat using Cloud Launcher. Deploy a MySQL server using Cloud Launcher. Deploy Jenkins to Compute Engine using Cloud Deployment Manager scripts. Migrate Nginx and Tomcat to App Engine. Deploy a Cloud Datastore server to replace the MySQL server in a high-availability configuration. Deploy Jenkins to Compute Engine using Cloud Launcher. Migrate Nginx and Tomcat to App Engine. Deploy a MySQL server using Cloud Launcher. Deploy Jenkins to Compute Engine using Cloud Launcher. 78...For this question, refer to the Dress4Win case study. Which of the compute services should be migrated as-is and would still be an optimized architecture for performance in the cloud?. Web applications deployed using App Engine standard environment. RabbitMQ deployed using an unmanaged instance group. Hadoop/Spark deployed using Cloud Dataproc Regional in High Availability mode. Jenkins, monitoring, bastion hosts, security scanners services deployed on custom machine types. 79..For this question, refer to the Dress4Win case study. To be legally compliant during an audit, Dress4Win must be able to give insights in all administrative actions that modify the configuration or metadata of resources on Google Cloud. What should you do?. Use Stackdriver Trace to create a Trace list analysis. Use Stackdriver Monitoring to create a dashboard on the project's activity. Enable Cloud Identity-Aware Proxy in all projects, and add the group of Administrators as a member. Use the Activity page in the GCP Console and Stackdriver Logging to provide the required insight. 80...For this question, refer to the Dress4Win case study. You are responsible for the security of data stored in Cloud Storage for your company, Dress4Win. You have already created a set of Google Groups and assigned the appropriate users to those groups. You should use Google best practices and implement the simplest design to meet the requirements.Considering Dress4Win's business and technical requirements, what should you do?. Assign custom IAM roles to the Google Groups you created in order to enforce security requirements. Encrypt data with a customer-supplied encryption key when storing files in Cloud Storage. Assign custom IAM roles to the Google Groups you created in order to enforce security requirements. Enable default storage encryption before storing files in Cloud Storage. Assign predefined IAM roles to the Google Groups you created in order to enforce security requirements. Utilize Google's default encryption at rest when storing files in Cloud Storage. Assign predefined IAM roles to the Google Groups you created in order to enforce security requirements. Ensure that the default Cloud KMS key is set before storing files in Cloud Storage. 81...For this question, refer to the Dress4Win case study. You want to ensure that your on-premises architecture meets business requirements before you migrate your solution. What change in the on-premises architecture should you make?. Replace RabbitMQ with Google Pub/Sub. Downgrade MySQL to v5.7, which is supported by Cloud SQL for MySQL. Resize compute resources to match predefined Compute Engine machine types. Containerize the micro-services and host them in Google Kubernetes Engine. |